1. How many types of data available in the IT market?
	3 Types
	a) Structured b) Semi-structured c) Un-structured

2. How many types of storage formats available in the market?
	a) File b) Database Tables

3. How many types of storage areas available in the market?
	a) Cloud b) On-Premise

4. What is BI?
	Business Intelligence or Intelligent data of business.[ General]
	It is the process of converting normal data into decision making data.

5. What is the input and output of BI?
	Input: Any data, Any Where, Any Format
	Output: Report or Dashboard

6. What is the BI Evolution?
	Legacy BI[early 1990's]: Multiple tools, resources and setups
	Middle Age BI: SIngle suite with multiple tools
	Modern BI: Single application with multiple concepts

7. What is MSBI?
	Microsoft Business Intelligence : SQL Server BI

	It is the First BI product from Microsoft available as "a SSBI Suite with multiple tools" to perform end-end operation and 		generate 	a report or dashboard.

	a) SSIS: SQL Server Integration Services: Data Integration [ETL or ELT component]
	b) SSAS: SQL Server Analysis Services: Semantic Model creation [meaningful data preparation]: Cube created
	c) SSRS: SQL Server Reporting Services: Reports and Dashboards Generation Area 
	d) DQS: Data Quality Services: To ensure the quality of data before ETL or ELT.
	e) MDS: Master Data Services: This is for Metadata Management.
	

	SSBI: The area where we perform extracting data onwards till report generation, that area is called as SSBI area.

	Release year: 2005
	Versions: 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017, 2019, 2022

8. What is Power  BI?
	The second generation modern BI component with many features than MSBI.
	"Powering BI or Adding Power to existing BI"
	"Power BI is a low-code supporting SSBI cloud and premises application to generate reports and dashboards from data"
	
	Release year: July-2013
	Versions: No specific versions, monthly updates available.	

9. What is Power Platform?
	A low-code platform to perform various operations.
	a) Power BI: Reports and Dashboards
	b) Power Apps: Mobile and Tab friendly apps
	c) Power Automate: Automated process [RPA: Robotic Process Automation]
	d) Power Pages: Websites and Web pages
	e) Virtual Agent: Chotbot creation 

	Release year: 2019

10. What is Microsoft Fabric?
	An AI based suite with the below components
	a) Power BI: Reports and Dashboards
	b) Data Factory: Data Integration
	c) Synapse: Data Storage and Analytics
	d) Data Activator: Data Monitoring and Governance

	Release: 2023-July

11. Power BI Components?

	


12. One SSBI Example...


13.  What is Azure BI?

	Cloud: Somebody else's storage area
	Types: Storage, Service, Platform etc.
	
	Storage clouds: OneDrive, Google Drive etc.
	Service cloud: Power BI Service, Salesforce, Workday, RedShift etc.

	Azure: A multi-platform cloud with various services [storage, platform, services, infrastructure etc.] and operations
		[Data Science,BI, AI etc.]

		If a project is using multiple BI components of Azure, then we can consider as Azure BI
		a) ADF: Azure Data Factory
		b) AAS: Azure Analysis Services
		c) Synapse
		d) Snowflake
		e) Datawarehouse
		etc.

	Note: MSBI and Power BI physically available with software name, whereas Azure BI is a logical word and physically not 		available.


MSBI--> Power BI--> Azure BI--> Microsoft Fabric


14. Diff between Visual and Insight?
	Visual: Data or Data + Graphical presentation component.

	Insight: Detailed understanding of data [deep dive of data]

15. Difference between report and dashboard?
	Report: Contains Visuals
		a) Detailed understanding of data
		b) An inidividual operation presentation 
		c) A company may have multiple reports
		d) General executives and high level resources use reports

	Dashboard: Contains visuals
		a) High level understanding of data
		b) A specific subject area data
		c) Usually company maintains limited dashboards
		d) Mostly hugh level management team uses 

11. Power BI Components?

	Cloud:
	a) Power BI Desktop: Report Develoment component [perform end-end SSBI operations] : More options.
			Non-Paginated report [advanced reporting]
	b) Power BI Service: Cloud storage and management component: More options


	On-Premise:

	a) Power BI Report Server Desktop: Report Develoment component [perform end-end SSBI operations]: Limited options.
					Non-Paginated report [advanced reporting]

	b) Report Server: On-premise storage and management : Limited options


	Additional components:
	a) Report Builder: To generate paginated reports
	b) Power BI Developer: To generate custom visuals
	c)  Power BI Embedding: Placing Power BI in other applications is called as embedding.
			Ex: Power BI report in share point server
			Power BI Report in Facebook / company website / blog etc.
	d) Gateway:	A component which is installed in On-premise area to bring On-premise data to cloud.

		My system file data--->  Gateway---> Power BI Report in the cloud / Power Apps App / Power Automate flow


A: What is paginated reporting? What is non-paginated reporting?

	Having a report data in multiple pages, each page having set of records and the pages are printable.
	Ex: You have 200 records, each page 10 records needed and 20 pages required, each page is printable.

	Legacy or traditional or conventional reporting is paginated.

	Non-Paginated: The records (data rows) are not split in this area. Advanced reporting.
		
16. What type of projects you will find with Power BI?

	You will find two types of projects
	
	a) Power BI along with other BI tools:

		In MNCs, you will find combination, because they use for data integration, analysis, and storage differwent 		types of tools, for Reporting Power BI, SSRS, Qlikview etc. components 
	b) Power BI Alone:

		Small and medium enterprizes use PBI for end-end reporting.
		Data->Extract->Transform->Modeling->Secure->Visuals-> BI Data















